README.md, before:

# Purpose

GLAD-TPC (HYDRA) is part of the R3BRoot software, the Monte Carlo simulation and experimental data analysis of the R3B (Reactions with Relativistic Radioactive Beams) nuclear physics experiments at the FAIR research center (Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research).

For the software-related user support you can post a new topic on our [forum](https://forum.gsi.de/index.php?t=index&cat=40&).

# Download

~~~bash
git clone https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/R3BRoot.git
cd R3BRoot
git clone https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/glad-tpc.git
cd glad-tpc
~~~

# Install

### Required software

First, you will need to install FairSoft and FairRoot and R3BRoot. For more details: [instructions](https://www.r3broot.gsi.de/installation). 
FaiSoft version: nov22p1 
FairROOT version: v18.8.0
Newer versions will not work properly with the simulation.

### Configure and compile

Follow the instructions in the [R3BRoot README](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/R3BRoot/blob/master/README.md).


# Simulations

For the general R3BRoot simulations, follow the instructions in [R3BRoot README](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/R3BRoot/blob/master/README.md).

The steps to properly run the glad-tpc simulation:

1. Create all the necessary files to run the code:
	1. The particle generator needs to be created, to do so go in the folder `/glad-tpc/gtpgen/` and run the macro `INCL_Background_ASCIIGenerator.cc` to generate the bkg or `PhaseSpaceDecay_hypertriton_ASCIIGenerator.cc` to generate the hypertriton decay. The instructions are inside the macros. The output of the macros could be found in the folder `/glad-tpc/gtpgen/ASCII/`
	2. The geometry of the detector you want to use should be already in the folder `/glad-tpc/geometry/` if it is not the case, go in the folder `/glad-tpc/macros/geo/` and run the macro for the geometry you want.

2. How to run the simulation, in the folder `/glad-tpc/macros/sim` there are 2 macros:
	1. `simHYDRA.C`: Needs the files created in step 1 to produce the events.
	2. `run_simHYDRA`: It requires the definition of the number of events, geometry and generator you want to use.
	In output will produce `par.root`, `sim.root` and two `.png` figures (these to check that the chamber is well placed).

3. Check the simulation output, in the folder of the geometry chosen ,e.g. Prototype, there are the following macros:
	1. `eventDisplay.C`: To see the geometry and the particles event by event. Be careful, close it from the terminal (.q).
	2. `checkAll.C`: Checks the primary, Points and Hits characteristics.

4. Electron drift, in the folder `/glad-tpc/macros/proj/` there are several macros, the important ones are:
	1. `run_proj.root`: Simple projection of the tracks onto the pad planes, produce in output the file `proj.root`.
	2. `readProjPoints.C`: General macro for checking the projPoints from the projector.

5. Visualization of the pad plane, in the folder `/glad-tpc/macro/vis` there is the macro `readVPadPlane.C`: This macro plots the output of the glad-tpc projector: plots the `R3BGTPCProjPoint` which contains the virtual pads calculated after the projection of the track.

6. Electronics response, in the folder `/glad-tpc/macro/electronics` there is the macro `Electronics_MT.C`: This macro simulate the electronics response.

#How to run the simulations

It is possible to use the bash script `run_full.sh` to run all these steps at once. BE CAREFUL, set first the wanted parameters in the different folders.


# Data Analysis

> ...Under development...

Commit message:

Update github workflows and clang-format-15
Clang-format

Again v3 to v4

Update .clang-format-check.sh

Recover previous version for fitter

Recover previous version for gtpc

README.md, after:

# GLAD-TPC Software

[![static analysis](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/glad-tpc/actions/workflows/static_analysis.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/glad-tpc/actions/workflows/static_analysis.yml) [![CI-CD](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/glad-tpc/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/glad-tpc/actions/workflows/main.yml)

## The GLAD-TPC Framework

GLAD-TPC (HYDRA) is part of the R3BRoot software, the Monte Carlo simulation and experimental data analysis of the R3B (Reactions with Relativistic Radioactive Beams) nuclear physics experiments at the FAIR research center (Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research).

For the software-related user support you can post a new topic on our [forum](https://forum.gsi.de/index.php?t=index&cat=40&).

## Release Information
Please visit [releases](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/glad-tpc/releases)

## Contributing
Please ask your questions, request features, and report issues by [creating a github issue](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/glad-tpc/issues/new/choose).

## Code Formatting
The GLAD-TPC project (as part of R3BRoot) uses clang-format-15 to ensure a common code formatting. The script "apply-format.sh" can be used for this purpose: 
~~~bash
source apply-format.sh
~~~

## Step by Step Installation

### Required software

First, you will need to install FairSoft and FairRoot and R3BRoot. For more details: [instructions](https://www.r3broot.gsi.de/installation). 
FaiSoft version: nov22p1 
FairROOT version: v18.8.0
Newer versions will not work properly with the simulation.

### Configure and compile

Follow the instructions in the [R3BRoot README](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/R3BRoot/blob/dev/README.md).


## Simulations

For the general R3BRoot simulations, follow the instructions in [R3BRoot README](https://github.com/R3BRootGroup/R3BRoot/blob/dev/README.md).

The steps to properly run the glad-tpc simulation:

1. Create all the necessary files to run the code:
	1. The particle generator needs to be created, to do so go in the folder `/glad-tpc/gtpgen/` and run the macro `INCL_Background_ASCIIGenerator.cc` to generate the bkg or `PhaseSpaceDecay_hypertriton_ASCIIGenerator.cc` to generate the hypertriton decay. The instructions are inside the macros. The output of the macros could be found in the folder `/glad-tpc/gtpgen/ASCII/`
	2. The geometry of the detector you want to use should be already in the folder `/glad-tpc/geometry/` if it is not the case, go in the folder `/glad-tpc/macros/geo/` and run the macro for the geometry you want.

2. How to run the simulation, in the folder `/glad-tpc/macros/sim` there are 2 macros:
	1. `simHYDRA.C`: Needs the files created in step 1 to produce the events.
	2. `run_simHYDRA`: It requires the definition of the number of events, geometry and generator you want to use.
	In output will produce `par.root`, `sim.root` and two `.png` figures (these to check that the chamber is well placed).

3. Check the simulation output, in the folder of the geometry chosen ,e.g. Prototype, there are the following macros:
	1. `eventDisplay.C`: To see the geometry and the particles event by event. Be careful, close it from the terminal (.q).
	2. `checkAll.C`: Checks the primary, Points and Hits characteristics.

4. Electron drift, in the folder `/glad-tpc/macros/proj/` there are several macros, the important ones are:
	1. `run_proj.root`: Simple projection of the tracks onto the pad planes, produce in output the file `proj.root`.
	2. `readProjPoints.C`: General macro for checking the projPoints from the projector.

5. Visualization of the pad plane, in the folder `/glad-tpc/macro/vis` there is the macro `readVPadPlane.C`: This macro plots the output of the glad-tpc projector: plots the `R3BGTPCProjPoint` which contains the virtual pads calculated after the projection of the track.

6. Electronics response, in the folder `/glad-tpc/macro/electronics` there is the macro `Electronics_MT.C`: This macro simulate the electronics response.

## How to run the simulations

It is possible to use the bash script `run_full.sh` to run all these steps at once. BE CAREFUL, set first the wanted parameters in the different folders.


## Data Analysis

> ...Under development...
